In this video we're going to
learn how to select our data by
location.
To begin with, we need to make
sure that we clear any selection
or defined query that we have on
our data already.
To do that, we need to go back
into our point layer properties.
So right click on our points
layer and go into properties and
we want to be in the source tab
to go back into query builder
and now we can hit the button
clear at the bottom.
Click OK and then click apply on
the property window and now we
can see we have all of our
points back and there's no
defined query on our points
layer anymore.
If you had a selection on your
data as well that you needed to
clear, you can use this deselect
button in the selection toolbar.
If you don't have the selection
toolbar, you just need to right
click at the top in the toolbars
and now you can toggle it on.
So we're going to use the Select
by Location tool in this video
to see how many sighting points
were in the Ziama protected
area.
We'll use the quick access
button in the selection toolbar
where we just were and it's the
fourth button along to select by
location.
So we'll click on this and it
will bring up this window.
And then for the first drop down
box, we want to select features
from our sighting points.
And so we can leave that how it
is or you can click on the drop
down box to choose this if you
don't have it.
And we want it to be where the
features are within the Ziama
protected area.
So we're going to choose the are
within button for this section
and we want to compare to the
features from Ziama protected
area as this is the one that
we're interested in to begin
with.
So we'll choose Ziama PA in this
box and underneath this we want
to make sure that this says
create a new selection and to
run a selection tool in the
proper way in QGIS.
We would want our data to all be
in the same coordinate reference
system.
Our point data is in a different
coordinate system to Ziama
protected area as we haven't
projected it yet.
So it's still in a geographic
coordinate system, whereas the
Ziama protected area is in a
projected system.
We'll be covering how to project
GIS data in a later lesson in
this course.
So for now, we're going to
choose an option to bypass the
fact that we haven't projected
this data and that's by clicking
on the spanner icon that's just
to the right of the where we
chose the Ziama protected area
option which will bring up this
page.
And in the top drop down box we
want to choose do not filter.
Now we can go back and we can
hit run and our select tool is
going to run and now we can see
that it's highlighted.
It's selected all the points
that have occurred within all
the sightings that occurred
within Ziama protected area.
So we want to know how many
occurred in Ziama.
We could just count the points
that we can see on our map that
are highlighted.
But if we had a large data set,
this would take a long time.
So a better way to do this is to
open up the attribute table and
then at the very top of the
table it tells us how many rows
there are and how many are
selected.
So it's telling us that 32 rows
are selected, so 32 sightings
happened within Ziama protected
area.
We can also see the points that
are selected as they're
highlighted in the table and we
could click on the button within
the the top bar of the table.
That lets us move all the
selected rows to the top.
So it's this button here.
And now all the selected rows
are at the top.
So now just remember to clear
the selection.
We can use the clear selection
button in the table here or we
could also deselect the features
using the button in the
selection toolbar and now have a
go at doing the same process for
Wonegizi and Wologizi to see how
many sighting points occurred in
these two areas.